# Sequential Pattern Mining using Data Mining Techniques

**Project Objective:**

To develop methods and algorithms for mining message flow specifications using execution traces of SoC designs.

**Project Description:** 

This repository reflects the ongoing development of the specification mining algorithm we are working on. We aim for mining a satisfactory number of rules from execution traces which will capture valid sequence of execution for any trigger. There have been many endeavors to determine correct specifications for reactive systems but none of them obliterated the need for further work in this domain. The current advancement in data mining algorithms has also got tremendous interest from specification mining researchers. Many researchers these days are working on the existing data mining algorithms to make them good alternatives to determine an efficient and reliable set of specifications for reactive systems. We also set a goal to utilize state of the art DM techniques to mine specifications in a bigger scale.   

*On-going, more updates will come soon*

**Required Installation:** 

* The program requires the installation of the Microsoft Z3 Solver, the 
NLTK toolset, PlantWeb, and Multiple Dispatch. 

```
pip install z3-solver
pip install nltk
pip install multipledispatch
pip install plantweb
```
* The code base is written in Python 3.
The project is developed using the Jetbrains PyCharm 2020 IDE.

**User Manual:** 

* *Work currently in progress, this section will be updated as more features are added to the program*

* The run script for this program is named "main.py" simply execute this script
to start the program.

```
python main.py
```

* Place message definition text files in the directory called "definitions", and place
execution trace files in the directory called "traces". There are example files in each directory
for reference on how they should be formatted.

* Once the program is running, you will prompted to enter the relevant file names.
Here is an example of how to enter the filenames:

```
Please enter node definition filename:
./definitions/medium_def.txt

Please enter trace filename:
./traces/medium_trace.txt

```
* The solver will then begin to process the information and its output will
be a UML diagram of individually mined sequences generated from the solutions
given from the Z3 solver. Solutions generated by the z3 solver are saved in the
directory path '/solutions/Solution (number)' as 'Solution (number).txt.'

```
Solution 1

a38_10 with edge support of 30
a10_17 with edge support of 10
a10_27 with edge support of 20
a15_23 with edge support of 20
a17_19 with edge support of 10
a27_15 with edge support of 20
a27_41 with edge support of 10
a23_40 with edge support of 2
a23_41 with edge support of 18
a19_27 with edge support of 10

b39_10 with edge support of 30
b10_17 with edge support of 30
b17_19 with edge support of 30
b27_40 with edge support of 28
b27_41 with edge support of 2
b19_27 with edge support of 30

Solution 2

...

```

* These results are then further analyzed into mined sequences that are
visually represented as PlantUML diagrams in the 'solutions' directory. Each
diagram represents a possible message flow mined from the initial information
given. 

* The program then terminates, to re-run the program simply restart from the first step
of the user manual.

To-Do...
